migrate local development refs from cookbook (#293)
solana-foundation/developer-content: content/cookbook/development/using-mainnet-accounts-programs.md

---
title: Using Mainnet Accounts and Programs
sidebarSortOrder: 5
description:
  Learn how to use the Mainnet accounts and programs in your local development
  environment.
---

> Oftentimes, local tests rely on programs and accounts available only on mainnet.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Oftentimes, local tests rely on programs and accounts that are not available on the local validator by default.
```

The Solana CLI allows to both:

- Download Programs and Accounts
- Load Programs and Accounts to a local validator

### How to load accounts from mainnet

> It is possible to download the SRM token mint account to file:

Reviewer: Project Serum (`SRM`) doesn't exist anymore. Pick a different token mint! Maybe Openbook DEX as that's Serum's replacement.

```shell
# solana account -u <source cluster> --output <output format> --output-file <destination file name/path> <address of account to fetch>

> solana account -u m --output json-compact --output-file jup.json JUPyiwrYJFskUPiHa7hkeR8VUtAeFoSYbKedZNsDvCN

Reviewer: That's the Jupiter address. Nothing to do with `SRM`. Maybe this got messed up in editing?

Author: YESSER Thanks

  environment.
---

Oftentimes, local tests rely on programs and accounts that are not available on the local validator by default.  
The Solana CLI allows to both:

- Download Programs and Accounts
- Load Programs and Accounts to a local validator

### How to load accounts from mainnet

> It is possible to download the JUP token mint account to file:

Reviewer: @nickfrosty Same here - these were Serum references, Ayush converted them to JUP - maybe we should use openbook since it's OSS?
